Hey, I'm Jad Abumrad I'm Robert Krulwich, Radiolab tele opening little, hey,
there we go again. Oh, was it a little, no, it was fine. It was good.
It was good. It was good. I like that. I could bring it down. No, no, no, no.
We keep going. So we're talking about sports and games and emotions and uh,
we just did a thing on rules and creativity and now it's time to add yet another
element to the mix.
Cause what do you get if you put all those three things together, you get hurt.
You get it. It, you do it. Say it. You're linearized here,
you'll get a story. Exactly.
Really Good Games are sort of story generating machines. For example,
here's Alison Gopnik again,
talking about a little teeny story that happens dozens of times a game in her
favorite sport.
One of the great moments in baseball is always that that ball is going out there
and the guys going out there with the glove and it might end up in the glove and
it might not, and he backs up against the stadium wall and
he gets it already doesn't. Um,
that wouldn't be nearly as much fun if he was just playing catch. Right.
That's a fantastic human drama.
So the question we want to explore now is what kind of drama do you want?
What kind of drama to you is most fantastic? Yeah. You want the, uh,
I think you want the headphones the other way around.
That's our producers siren. Wheeler has that. Yeah, something like that.
Who is out of the bathroom and it seems to have made a new friend.
So set that up. Who's that guy?
So that's a Dan Engber senior editor at slate magazine.
And I brought him into the studio because he told me about this thing that had
happened to them when I was watching the, um, NCAA tournament, the, the, uh,
the basketball men's college basketball tournament. This was just last year.
I don't know anything about college basketball. It said, you know, I,
I have two or three sports that I can pay attention to them.
People have one or two or zero, but college basketball isn't one of them,
but there's this tournament on every year. It's kind of exciting. So he watches.
Yeah. And what he does, since he doesn't really doesn't have any loyalties,
he doesn't know who to root for. Right. For me, he just kind of, by default,
I just pick whichever team has the lower seat
[inaudible]
whichever is the worst team. Why do you do that? I have no idea. And it,
it came to a head when I showed up at a friend's house and they had the game
between Butler and Michigan State on,
it was a semi-finals and they were both seated number five.
So it's like you're a little system is right. I've,
I have no idea which team to root for it. So I just was,
I started rooting for whichever team was losing and it was a close game so
butler would make a run.
Wow. Then Michigan comes back
nicer
feeling sorry for butts.
Literally every time one would go up,
he switched to the other,
the certain point he's like, wait a second.
This strategy guarantees that at the end of the game when the Buzzer goes,
I'll have been rooting for the team that lost. Right.
It actually created a situation where I'm guaranteed to be disappointed,
guaranteed to be disappointed.
So Dan decided to figure out like what the Hell is going on? Why?
Why would anyone do this to themselves? Is that,
is that something that's actually been studied? So there's,
there's a small group of psychologists that would be me and me who are
interested in this question. Underdogs tracked a couple of them down.
My name is Scott Alison and the Dove Goldschmidt to University of Richmond,
University of San Diego currently.
So they're these studies that are just sort of hilariously simple where you take
a bunch of undergrads and you put them in a room and we give them scenarios to
read like a paragraph of involving say two competing teams. Here's a, and it's,
there's almost no information. The teams don't even have names, they're just,
it's team a and team B. Team a is playing team B in a game.
You don't even have to tell them what sport team a is considered the better team
and it's more likely to win who you gonna root for them.
80% of the students choose the underdog team 80 yup. In fact,
a lot of times it comes out 90%. No, not a 10 yes.
In the absence of any reason to choose one or the other,
that's almost universal.
And you can do this study in all different ways and the answer always comes out
the same. You can describe it as two political figures, you know,
running for election. Or you can talk about two businesses, mom and pops,
electronic store against Walmart where you can talk about to landscape painters
who've painted pictures and are now trended landscape painters. Yes.
We gave participants a painting and half the participants were told this
painting was done by a successful established artists. You know,
so though who has a gallery show downtown and the other half of the participants
were told the same painting with done by a starving artist,
first-year arts student who's trying to make it in the art world who only has
one arm and yeah, exactly.
And people have this very strong bias in favor of the underdog painter.
So what else do we have? We got landscape painters, unnamed sports teams,
businesses, politics, politics, and my favorite shapes.
Shapes. Yeah. Um, what would an underdog shape be?
It's just a circle about an inch in diameter moving left to right across the
computer screen, moving up what could be a hill exactly.
As the circle moves up,
the circle slows down as it goes up the hill nudging up and then dropping back a
little bit and then nudging up and dropping back a little bit quivering. Yeah,
yeah, yeah.
And then along comes the second circle that has no trouble getting up that hill
cruises past this low poke circles zooms right past it. Sure enough,
people have a real preference in some way or another.
They're really rooting for circle B.
The struggler we get people emotionally reacting to a geometric shape when
they're sitting there. Are they like, come on, come on. You can do it. Yes.
Pulling forward, it's going to be like Rudy, you know, let's,
this is how deeply ingrained the underdog phenomenon in is in us at this point.
Like, my question is why, why, why on here? Exactly. Why do we do this? Well.
Um, well I, well, well I, I think that there,
there are two different approaches to, to, to that,
to that why question one of them is this kind of what they call an emotional
economics argument. And it goes like this.
If you know that you have an underdog and you have a top dog,
so the top dog is expected to win, right?
If you think of this like the way a gambler would think of it,
like if you go with the top dog, they're expected to win.
So you're not going to get a big payout if they do win.
Minimal emotional payoff,
but you'll lose a lot if they lose meaning you won't feel too good if they win,
but you'll feel really bad if they lose. Yes. But if you go with the underdog,
it's the reverse, right? They're expected to lose. So if they do lose,
it's not that big a deal.
Cause you've kind of figured that was how it was going to go. But if they win,
you feel great so you can difficult in the emotional payoff.
So it's like betting on a long shot horse. You can put in five bucks,
you're probably going to lose it,
but if you win you might get back like a hundred. Exactly. Hmm. I,
I don't s that just does not feel at all like how I watched sports.
Well there's,
there's another argument which is these guys say that maybe it's something about
fairness.
Deep down we want to live in a fair society where there's an even playing field
and there's research that shows that fairness is a pretty deep instinct in us.
But I don't know. I mean like none of that seems to,
I guess the thing is that this whole thing feels like a lot more basic.
If you look back at like the stories we tell this underdog story is ancient,
the Iliad, the Odyssey, a great epics from Asia,
Africa, that's all the same story then. And so Scott says, you know,
maybe we love the underdog because we feel like we are the underdog. Yeah.
I mean, in some sense just to be a living thing is to fight against the odd,
think about newborns.
[inaudible]
you can't be any more weak and helpless and small,
you know, I mean the baby, I guess that's true. Um,
but I don't know. I mean, I don't remember being a baby and feeling it,
but I do remember junior high, you know,
and I do remember feeling like I would never get a job.
And I do remember feeling like there's no way that girls ever gonna like me.
Yeah. You know, we need these stories just to make it through.
They're part of who we are as human beings. There's actually a very interesting,
uh, story about, uh, Haruki Murakami,
the famous Japanese novelist.
He was awarded the Jerusalem literature
and this was in the meat store immediately after Israel invaded Gaza and there
were more than one than Palestinian dead in his delivery speech.
He said the following between a high solid wall and an egg that breaks against
it, I would always on the side of the egg,
no matter how right the wall may be and how wrong the egg,
I would stand with the egg.
Someone else will have to decide what is right and what is wrong.
Perhaps time or history would do it,
but if there were a novelist who for whatever reason wrote works,
standing with the wall of what value would such works be?
Huh? Value with these works be an interesting word.
It's almost like he's saying like a story's job is,
it's beyond morality. It's beyond truth.
Like it's job is somehow to to tell you that the world could be a way that we
know inherently it never will be. I think that's what he's saying.
Or maybe he's really saying that I stand with the powerless and the powerful can
take care of themselves.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna a little wait to people who have no muscles of
their own. I'm going to put a little pebble on the scale.
That's the job of story.
And I guess if the scale is always weighted in the wrong direction,
then that's why we love this story because we need more pebbles. Well yeah,
but there's a question we haven't asked here, which is what, well,
four out of five of us root for the underdog or the struggling circle,
but that's not everyone.
One out of five people are like, screw that circle.
I'm excited about the circle.
They could probably do some interesting follow up studies on like who are those
psychopaths? Yeah. And so you assume they're psychopaths. I do.
Actually. Oddly we ended up bumping into a guy who falls into this group. Yeah,
it's Malcolm. Yeah. Hi. His name is Malcolm Gladwell.
He's a writer for the New Yorker magazine.
He's also written a bunch of bestselling books and in the middle of a
conversation unbidden by the way, he suddenly says, Oh, I'm,
I never ever cheer for the underdog.
You don't know why, why not? Cause I'm distressed by the,
the injustice of the person who should win,
not winning the injustice of the fee.
What losing for the favorite is that is the most, um,
exquisitely painful situation to be in. So I remember as a kid,
the first time I ran, I was huge track and field fan. 76 Olympics.
Dwight stones lost the high jump even though he was so far in a way the greatest
high jumper in the world because it rained.
His technique required absolutely perfect footwork and he's would slip on the
tarmac.
And I just remember sitting there as a kid and I was just devastated cause I
could feel his pain right and his pain was so much greater than anybody else's.
What's wrong with you?
It's too painful if they lose when Dwight stones loses the highjump,
it is literally one of the most painful experiences of my young life. I can't,
I thought about it from weeks afterwards.
I just couldn't wrap my mind around how he must've felt going home.
And ever since then I was like,
there's no way you could not cheer for the overnight because they will suffer.
Like [inaudible] is the only humane position because you are trying to end human
suffering this as tortured and twisted the logic as I've ever heard. I mean I,
I always thought this was um, you know, rare evidence of my empathy that I,
I felt jaded. I've, oh, so sorry to brought you the news. It's also,
you know, it is,
there's another part of this too and that is that it is that I have a deep
distrust and unhappiness with luck.
So I do not like it when the outcome turns on and an unrepeatable sequence.
So Georgetown losing the Villanova in,
is it the 82 NCAA college basketball championships,
there is no way you could play that game hundred thousand times and Villanova
would still only win that one time. That just, that game,
it did more than upset me. It outraged me. I mean, I just thought this is not,
it's just not right. It is like, it is a violation of everything.
You shouldn't be able to shoot 78% from the floor or whatever the,
I forgot what the number was, the preposterous number. They, and I just,
you know, if I had been on Georgetown, I would to this,
I would wake up every night in a cold sweat to this day,
just thinking this is outrageous. How did this happen?
So weird. You're a storyteller by trade.
What are the clunks Christian Anderson had woken up every morning and said,
here I have a great story.
There's an ugly duckling and it just stays ugly because, you know,
why should it get lucky and be a swat? It's just an ugly duckling rubber.
We're not talking about stories. I understand stories. To me,
a game is not a story to me, a game,
it is a contest between two parties according to certain rules. And when the,
when expectations and rules are violated, some part of me takes offense. Well,
I'm curious, how do you feel about the,
the people who always root for the underdog, which happens to be most people.
Do you feel like that's the weaker position morally?
Is it weak or morally? Um, I mean there's a, there's a,
there's a very unflattering interpretation of this and that is that on some deep
level, I think of myself as a favorite, not an underdog. Right. You know,
that's, like I say, that's an unflattering way of interpreting my motives.
But you know, unlike many of my peers, I grew up in a tiny,
tiny town and went to a kind of unexceptional high school where everyone left at
16 to go home and milk the cows.
And so it was like situation where I did sort of grow up as the,
if you had parents who had gone to college,
you were the overdog in my universe growing up. So I, you know,
I do sort of,
when I was in seventh grade and someone got a better grade than me,
it was outrageous to me, right. Because no one should get her.
Only my friend Bruce should get a better grade than me. You know,
he's the only the other person in the class whose parents went beyond the ninth
grader who had books at home or who had left the province of Ontario.
So maybe there's something physically in that that if you grow up in these
impoverished environments where you, you're forced into a particular
dominant role, right. You just,
you come back to it again and again long after those circumstances have changed.
[inaudible]
that's Malcolm Gladwell, defender of winners everywhere. I do, I do hate when,
when it's loose. It is true
now. He may hate it when winter's lose,
but we have one that will tempt them to go the other way. I mean,
it's certainly caught our attention. Yes.
This is a fantastic story about losers who win.
This is actually one of the best stories of that kind that, uh,
at least I've ever heard of except for chariots of fire when it comes to us from
our producer Pat Walters. Uh, yeah. [inaudible] he took a trip,
sort of set it up for her. Where did you go? I went to Stevenson, Alabama.
It's this tiny town in northeastern Alabama. Tiny like,
isn't like one convenience store tiny or maybe two, maybe two. Yeah.
Really small. Anyway,
my first stop in this town was this high school walking up now to North Jackson
high school.
Because I had heard this story about a basketball game that happened in this
school, in the gym here. People concluded I'd be 1500
that is like a miracle.
[inaudible]
one in a million nat. This is David Smith. He's an ag teacher at this school.
Been here since we started the place and he says that even now he has kids who
don't believe it happened. These kids come in every year and they'll say,
Mary Smith to dive to really beat five. I said, yes, I did.
Do you want me go in there and lay the hand on the Bible? I will
and I'll bring them in here and show him that picture on the wall there that you
just seen behind him,
there's this little newspaper clipping from 1992 and it shows he's three
basketball players.
The one in the middle is this tiny white kid who actually doesn't really have
too much to do with our story,
but on either side of him are the two guys that did this amazing thing.
Those two Gash could've said, well, you know,
it's all over with and dropped the ball out of bounds or, and the left,
my name is Robert Lewis. Cargo Jr is this huge guy or I was fat,
the fat and on the other side is like his exact opposite.
So I'll check a tiny little guy. I was about five, six,
seven and you can dunk if so, pitched stuff. Yeah. Like somebody,
you know because I don't ball for us. You jump off. Yeah. At five six, five,
six, five, seven. I'm like, yeah. Well that was real small,
but I could jump real good.
Yeah. How did you, or how did you work on your, so what happened? Okay,
let me set it up.
Okay. It's February 14th,
1982 5:00 PM Tom game. The gym is completely packed.
It was pee everywhere, about a thousand people in the stands who was sleepwear.
And we had a good crowd at that game. That's Vic Greg's,
he's the assistant coach. How's the rivalry?
The game that night was against the Fort Payne wildcats and Fort Payne has been
a huge rivalry from the very get go. They were the enemy, book ball, basketball,
baseball, it don't matter which for pain we do,
we go at it for pain team had more resources,
even had more players in that year.
Everyone agreed that they were just plain better. Yeah.
I think we would have been considered another dog that everyone pretty much
thought the chiefs were going to lose chiefs. Our team go chiefs.
But the game is really close and in fact the eight 55 in the second,
Huh?
The chiefs took the lead
those days day and it just going back and forth and back and forth.
It was a close game other than like the rest
off.
Well it was called with some unbelievable stuff and that's the thing that
ultimately would make this game so dramatic is that there was just a crazy
number of files. Calls. How many,
like how many are usually called in like your typical NBA game?
They might be 50,000 but in this game with three minutes [inaudible]
[inaudible]
71 five oh, it was like, man. Yeah. I was gonna ask,
was it a rough game or was it that these guys were just like calling a ton of
files?
Yeah, they, I think that was a little bit of both. They would,
they would let us play for real. Just redaction. Play bar.
Yeah, because according to Robert, how they used to play,
it was like anything goes. When did you,
do you remember like the first time that you played basketball,
do you remember how you learned to play?
My cousin now? Uh, my aunt used to have a, uh, my great aunt, she used, we,
we used to have like a, we call it dust bowl. You know what I'm saying?
Back then it went no gravel. I mean, no concrete, it just does,
does coming up here, my cousin don't play.
I had a basketball goal right down the street. Everybody in front of projects,
they come down and play grownups. Mostly.
Not like everybody's watched my uncle Jim go out there and play like they get a
church and playing every day.
The only way for Chad and Robert's get on the court,
we know who played with the older guys. You know what I mean?
We'll go at it hard. We will turn them up because you know,
maybe deep down they may be believed that the game wasn't just a game. No.
We'll go out there and we somebody else. What I mean, like what,
who would you imagine you were? Oh, back then, uh, doctor [inaudible]
the as in Dr j
and my dream was that maybe he could also be a professional athlete and get my
dad out of prison. Get mom on a big old house. What I'm saying,
take her and my family and everything
back in the game. Two seconds left in the clock about James.
We have the ball in this scrawny little guy named Travis Smith from the end of
the bench is on the free throw line and he's gonna shoot the thousand shots.
Yeah. Here's, here's what's important though. Yeah. We're down by two points.
[inaudible] Travis has three shots now.
He got fouled shooting a three point exactly. Which means
Travis Mackerel break though, right?
He could win the game right now. Do it Travis.
First one,
the second one. [inaudible]
what's up the,
he might get no
boxes with her dog.
Shall we lose tie game? Oh,
the tie game ties the game and sends it into overtime. Who's that?
That's my friend Tom Lake. He's a writer for sports illustrated.
He told me about the game right here. Um,
this is where things just get totally out of hand, right?
The chiefs take the court. Everybody's in foul trouble.
What does that mean in basketball?
You get 5,000 you get thrown out of the game and these guys have like close to
yeah. And the first thing that happens,
yeah. Wait here with just blow another one.
Travis Smith, the guy who put us into overtime. Okay.
Can I have it again?
That was out of the game. When Travis bowels out 59 seconds into overtime,
the chiefs have only five players left. Just means no sets.
The game keeps going with a minute.
41 11 it leaves another guy,
another guy fouls out there now for house fliers. Now four against five.
14 Scott, two seconds later. [inaudible] got it though.
Yeah.
Another guy falls out. So there's three now. There's just through a kidding me.
Yeah. Is that real? Can that happen? There's no rule against that.
Why would you make a rule against something like this?
What are the odds it's ever going to happen?
So minute 39 39 to go air three cheater down to gray again.
Chad Cobb, Robert, Paul, your hand, Chris Shelby.
So with 59 seconds left in the game, four pains are here by
67 to 64
14 gets the ball, tries to drive it down. The court. North Jackson steals it,
passes it to Chad Cobb. Remember that name? Chad Cobb takes it down.
The court pulls up at the three point line. Yup.
The [inaudible]
Ben with 17 seconds on the clock. Does it? Listen, I don't know.
And Chris Shelby, one of the last three remain chiefs in [inaudible].
Was He always out of the game? And now it's five
North Jackson only has two players left on the court to two against five.
No,
Robert [inaudible],
James Todd, 60 70
67 and by this time, you know you're thinking, well, it's all over.
It's all over. And the next play,
the next play just baffles mate with 17 seconds left on the clock.
North Jackson ends up with the ball. There was a time out called,
this is Jay Sanders, the head coach and I came to the side and you know,
what do you tell kids? Yeah, you only have two on the floor.
You don't say they've got time for one play. One chance to win the game.
And I can remember Chad saying, how am I going to get open? You know it just,
this is over.
Cause he knew Robert was throwing it in and he was only one the kitchen that got
four guys out there. Yeah. Quadruple team. Yes.
Well now okay, I'd come. We'll have the pressure on his back.
So me and Jay, we going back out there we play then all of the chairs, man,
look, old school.
I know, I just remember Robert was holiday and we was like his backyard.
It was in your backyard. I mean what are we meaning? What does bro?
Oh, he's like out there with it to you go just run, get open
17 seconds and over time period score is all nodded at 67 they're gonna sit
around job.
I have one guy on me to old him and to him back.
Dan's got a bright query.
I ran like one way and I fake back slam on the brakes and ran straight back.
Robert just hoping he gets through and he was wide open and I was wide open and
that's what rob was seeing me. Robert through the bowel space,
eight ball [inaudible]
just to that narrow corner.
He's just dribbling between people trying to get by guys or whatever on the
little guy. Yeah, in Fort Paints, you know,
trying to come up double team and Chad's just weaving in and out of these guys.
Yes. Out playing backyard ball. Almost everybody was paying.
He might take it out of the way in a way on
I want to run these guys.
Know when I seen that I had a layup and Chad takes a shot,
they put it on [inaudible]
takes that lap, that last shot, and he banks it and it hits the back of the,
the, here's the back board, here's the other side of the ramp.
[inaudible]
falls off, shout it, look strong. Do you like it? Oh No.
And all of a sudden they hit the ground and just came out the back where there's
big Robert and I was in the right spot, the right time and he grabs it.
And of course there's about three, four pipe people around him.
So I'll pop for fake about twice. But I did everybody, Joe and my mind, I knew.
I was like, oh no. And when he puts the ball up against the glass
[inaudible] just get this, the buzzer goes off.
[inaudible] [inaudible] it was just handled mode.
[inaudible] oh yeah. Never married buddy. Come on. Or the bleeding.
I don't even remember walking down to the club. But the next thing I know,
I'm being hugged by this woman in North Jackson thing and then she's swinging.
She had literally just just slinging me left and right lifting wraps.
He's got you [inaudible] got me in a bear hug and I'm just like a little dish
rag and I'm just flopping around of course.
And then I start hugging her and we're benching the rail.
And then I remember looking at it to circle it, half code,
and I promise you there was a pile of bodies, six feet,
huge, huge pile of people and on the bottom of the pile
really it was like colon God. There was Chad and I was throwing the ball,
try to get up
the next day when I woke up
it was like, this is just happening.
It was just like a dream and a Monday morning when the boys went to school.
Oh man, they were, but they were just, it was just crazy. I, everybody was,
you know, talking about it, asking us question, you know what I'm saying?
Just asking. I'll never forget that I don't do this. I've got to explain,
you know,
they said it over the intercom and says a few people even asked them a good look
at. Well, rather than, I don't know, man. And everywhere they went in town,
people knew me. Everybody knew. Then a few days later, Davis,
Milford, actually it was Vic Greg's, yeah, that's right.
Went and call the news called the reporter in Huntsville,
which is the nearest big city. And I was telling him about it and he said, no,
wait a minute. Wait a minute. Did you say you want with two players?
Hung up on him. The News,
they hung up on him. His thought it was crazy.
But two days later they ran the story
and as soon as they did, but this was in the Huntsville Times hospital, Alabama.
Could you read it to me? This thing just kind of blew up that
uh, if they ever found that the, my Kauffman miracle was on Jackson,
that's what many consider the North Jackson hace 69 67 victory over with,
for plain wildcats. Black Friday night. It was everywhere from Portland,
Oregon to Mac Associated Press,
the Chicago Tribune plains dealer.
It would have fort worth as dramatic in eating as Hoosiers USA Today.
Ordinarily,
there's no way two players can make five players in a basketball game,
kind of laminated. They're not,
unless the two man team is Charles Barkley and Michael Jordan.
But North Jackson did it. We'll phone messages,
call this person and that person, I'll just remember like it was crazy.
Like ESPN, you can just do that. Sports illustrated as a movement.
It was just really cider. So what happens,
Chad? Robert are riding this high for months, months, and months. You know,
somebody said that Lynn,
I were Letterman or somebody even kind of mentioned something on one of their
shows at the end of a joke. I didn't see it or hear it.
It seemed to a lot of people that this would turn into something.
I was really hoping from this deal. Uh,
the Amr helped Chad get a little notoriety and might help him get a scholarship,
help him get noticed, help get his name out there, you know, and uh, uh,
I, I don't, I don't know.
Well, we never know what,
what little piece of the puzzle is gonna make that big a difference. Dude. Blue,
what does that mean? Well, nothing happened. Nothing happened.
By the end of the school year,
people stopped calling and the story just kind of faded away.
It just, it was over. I mean they would just,
and Robert says the game started to feel like it never even happened.
It has been, it has been rough for me. I mean right now it is,
it's been messed up from that spring after the game.
Robert Graduate High School held it together for a while,
but eventually fell in with some shady characters, smoking weed,
you know what I'm saying? And kind of lost control of this life.
Really. How when I went to see him
[inaudible]
he was locked up in the Scottsboro county jail for one of lots of different
things. And I, our first week I was here, I cried every night
it's me. It's like, why am I here? You know, what did I do?
So you said like this game happened and then for awhile you wouldn't think about
it cause it seemed like it hadn't even really happened.
Like it was just a dream. Uh,
do you think about it ever besides when somebody comes along and asks you about
it again? Uh,
not, not really. Not so much. I said like, no,
we got like a little basketball go. We made up back there.
So that's what it was back at doing when they told me to come up and no,
I always inside, you know, it's like a little box, you know what I mean?
We done made little knit,
they got little bags like where we put our clothes and you know,
they're not cut them out.
Got from like for the nits and just like we just got a lot of socks put together
like a ball and play basketball.
Hmm.
What about the other guy or the other? One of the two ball players? Chad? Chad.
Chad stayed in town too and he got married and had a daughter.
But about five years after the game,
I'll just go on around some back rolls around a little curve as like he had
gotten this motorcycle accident and tore up his knee.
Let me be in the opposite way. It was pretty bad. Yeah.
Shortly after that runs into his old buddy Travis. Remember him?
He was the guy who hit the shot that put the game into overtime.
[inaudible]
that guy. Yeah. And they got into an argument.
It was basically situation that shooting happened.
What it lead details are a little hazy.
Apparently Travis thought Chad was badmouthing him to a girl or something.
I don't know what, what exactly. So as I was going home, he was, um,
he left the gym. But when I was going home, he was following me and he came and,
um,
flicking his lights at me to stop or whatever. But I had my daughter with me,
took her home, came back out. So, you know, we're a little small town.
We fist fight and I got out of my car and I was like, um,
I only got one leg. I can barely hold myself up as you get close enough to,
you know, I said, uh, we can fight. He never said nothing. I said, see,
that's what I thought. I see. You ain't nothing, you know. So I turned around,
I put my her leg in the car cause I was driving and it still was,
I was getting my other leg in the car. I just heard shots.
I just seen blood shooting up at the snaring with, I was like, man,
just, this is not what the story is. So not what I want this story to do. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. I thought that this is about, you know, sports in America,
it's a good dream factory to some degree.
If you have the magic dust then they try to sell it.
So I thought these guys had dust all over them after a night like that.
And so someone was going to help them sell it. And well,
like my practical response in my head is like there's a crappy school for
basketball. They probably weren't really that good.
Like in the whole scope of basketball players that who have the same dreams.
Like I dunno. I see. Yeah. On the other hand,
hi.
Even though it was just that one moment like that still I feel like should say
something about who they are. And when I went to see Chad,
I kind of felt like it did Patrick j, what do you mean? Hi?
The playoffs were on and chatter is hanging out with his kids.
Chanel and Chad two years that's pulling for the heat and I'm going for the
Mavericks. He just don't like how to do the [inaudible] mom,
but I'm not just a big umbrella.
They were joking around watching Lebron just have this mythically terrible
series. Not Fine. Too good to not. And you know,
Chad's basically raised these two kids on his own.
His wife left a few years ago. He gets up very early in the morning,
drives an hour and a half to work, works really long hours,
drives home and it just seems hard.
But he keeps doing it.
And this might not sound like the ending you want. No,
I might not be in the NBA or whatever, but I just feel like I'm, you know,
I'm happy. I mean, I'm happy with my Amy
got healthy kids. I get to see him every day.
Ooh.
If I was to die tomorrow, I'm happy with my end
[inaudible]
Daddy, where Lebron is just like,
get two oh five you know? So
[inaudible].